Welcome back in in the previous lesson we looked out how we can pick up information from you or Elgie
saw an information using AJAX and retrieve it and then utilize it within our javascript.
Then this lesson I wanted to show you that we can also post data to our.
You are to a you are l and then retrieve back that information.
So basically to simulate a server and queering into the server and there's a number of different
ways to set up a server.
So for the purposes of this lesson I'm going to be running zap and I've got a really simple ph P application.
So if you're not familiar with HP you don't have to do a lot of coding.
All it's doing is picking up those request variables.
And if you don't have the ability to set up a local server you could always use zap.
So this one is very straightforward.
You can download it for Windows OSX and so on.
Or you could just use your own web server and upload a simple DHP file in order to try the same.
Now there's not a lot of open endpoints that you can post to.
So this is why for this lesson I have had to set up the local machine that's going to run on my computer.
And the one that I'm using is Zap.
It's all I've done is I've started it and it's running in the background.
So basically it allows me to launch APHC file and the purposes of this file.
Very simple and straightforward.
There's not a lot of code in here.
All it's doing is taking the post request and the post request by name and age and it's just returning
them back.
So this I'm going to use in order to simulate picking up information and sending it to the server using
AJAX.
So let's go ahead and build this.
So what I want it to do is I want to set up an input input field so that we can dynamically change the
values that we're inputting and that we're sending over to the server.
We're just going to give it a simple We'll give it an ID of ID text and then next let's do input type
and we'll do a button and then we'll add an event listener to the button.
So
send data.
So this one is actually going to send the data when it's clicked and we'll do it by.
We'll just give it a value of send.
So that's it for further H.T. m-L.
Now let's jump into the Javascript.
So what we want to do is we want to add an event listener.
So let's go ahead and add that event listener.
So document get element by id and we're picking up the element with the ID of send data.
So basically whenever this gets clicked we want to initiate our AJAX call.
So a listener and we're listening for the Click event and we're going to fire off my function.
So just get to caught fire off a function called my function
so next let's set that up and I'm going to just clean this up a little bit so it moves a little bit
back and then move some space into here.
So next thing that we do is set up the function.
So my function
and most of this is going to be similar to what we saw earlier.
So there's not a lot of change.
The only difference is I'm not going to be sending a get I'm going to be sending a post method.
And also I'm going to be sending some data over so I'm going to be sending the data that we're going
to pick up within that input field.
So let's grab the value of the text.
So this is the text that we're sending over so just call it XTi and do a document get element by id
and we're going to pick up the value that's contained within here so we'll grab that elements and place
the value next to that we want to do is set up a brain you X-amount HTP request so set up a variable
an object in order to hold dots and we're going to do new X M-L HTP request
so that places that object into the X a char variable and then next Let's listen for the ready state.
So this time we'll do the ready state change and if the ready state changes then we fire off this anonymous
function and then within here we're going to make sure that we do a check to see if they are ready state.
Is equal to 4.
And if it is then we know that we've connected and we can retrieve back that information.
So also let's put let's actually update that output area with whatever we're retrieving back.
So document get element by Id grab in that output area and we're updating the inner h t amental.
So whatever we're retrieving back from the response text is what we're going to output there.
So basically whatever the server outputs we're going to output within our output area.
So what.
What else do we need to do in order to make this fire off so I can close that up a little bit there.
So the next thing that we know we need to actually open the file so this is where we put in that file
path.
And we saw this before as well in the earlier examples.
So we need to specify the format.
So this time we're going via post and then we need to specify where we're posting it to.
So that's the end point.
And then true so that we can go asynchronous and next thing we want to do is we want to send that ex-teacher.
So send H.R.
and we do need to add in some headers as well.
So within the send format we're going to send the value for name because we're picking up a name here
and we're picking up age so we need to specify that here.
So let's it can be specified by text.
And then this one we're not going to make this one dynamic.
So we we connect them together with the end sign.
And this one let's just give it a value.
So give it a value of 50.
So we're almost ready to send this over and there's a few other things that we still need to add in
and so we're sending it over to our local file and remember we do have our server running and within
because we're doing this locally we need to add in a header here to allow the access control.
And also if you are running your local server you can go and you can grab that full address.
So this is the same thing that we saw earlier when we were posting to or we are getting information
from a Web site we need to go HTP Ford slash.
And if you're actually running it on a server and if this file is running on your local host as well
you won't have any of these problems with the Corps errors.
And this is something that you need to be mindful of the fact that these coures errors are there built
into javascript in order to protect your local files.
So that's why you're going to run into these and that's why for this lesson we did have to set up a
local machine in order to better illustrate how Polistes works.
So you don't necessarily need to always do this if you're just uploading to a server.
So just keep that in mind.
So one other thing that we also need is we need to update the headers.
So over a year we're updating the headers on the peace side when we receiving the information but we
also have an option to update the request headers within the URL and that's because we're sending over
data.
So we've got to make sure that that data gets encoded properly and especially because we are doing a
post we're not doing a get we need we need to set our request header and this is something that you
do have to do depending on what type of data and what type of AJAX call that you are doing.
So set request header and then within here you can specify different requests headers.
So we're doing content type.
So that's the that's the and you notice as well that it's within this type of format would do content
type and then the next part is you are l encoded.
Because we're getting it from a form we need to encode it so it's application for Slash SWW dash for
you are all encoded.
So after you've done all of this then you're ready to refresh your page and you can enter in some data
here and you can see that we do a round trip.
We pick it up on the server and the server outputs it and then the server puts that information there.
I can also console log that response information.
So basically this is equivalent to whatever is being output within the server.
And that's what we see here.
So as I update it it's actually going to do the round trip to the server and update my content within
my page.
And you can see that I added in the console log as well.
So you can see the actual sending and receiving of the data that's happening here within the AJAX call.
So I know this lesson has been a little bit of out of scope where we did set up the local machine but
we did need this in order to illustrate that output.
And also I know I was using upper case here you can use lower case as well.
So that actually doesn't matter.
So I just had an upper case so it would stand out that this is the method that we're using but the case
it's not case sensitive so it can be upper or lower it doesn't actually matter.
So unless you actually have access to a local machine and if you want to try this part out then you
can go over to zap or you could set up another local machine or you could upload this to your server
and try it out.
Also remember that this is a need.
You need to have server side code in order to pick up your post requests and be able to retrieve that
information and make use of that.
So again you do need to have some type of server in order to retrieve that information.
And also depending on what where this request is coming from you might need to update the access control
headers to avoid those coures errors that we saw earlier that were popping up within our application.
So that's how you can send and post information using AJAX.